Subtitles retimed/edited by Cuvio.
Missing lines restored.
Eye movement detected.
What is two plus two?
Incorrect.
Cognition assessment -
What is two plus two?
Incorrect.
You have been in an induced coma.
You may experience
some memory loss -
difficulty speaking.
Body movement detected.
For your own safety.
please return to the medical platform.
Where am I?
Please remember muscle function
has not yet been restored.
People!
Hello?
Where am I?
Red leather. yellow leather.
Why is there an atomic resolution
scanning electron microscope?
Why do I know that?
Am I smart?
Hello?
Please record video diary.
No.
Can I speak to the person in charge?
The. uh. captain.
Captain Yáo. Li-Jie. Deceased.
Yeah. where. um. are the living people?
Dr. Ryland Grace.
End of manifest.
I can't be the only person here. Right?
Pilot detected.
No! No. No-No. Not the pilot.
Uh.
Call. uh. Houston.
Unknown command.
Operation Go Home in effect.
Invalid operation.
That's the sun! There it is.
So. what are we. like. Neptune-ish?
Let's crank up the radio and call Earth.
Current
transmission time to Earth
is 11 years. 10 months.
14 days and 6 hours.
No. Nope. You're wrong.
I need a map.
Oh.
Uh.
That's so far.
That's really far. Uh
That's not our sun.
Where is the fuel?
Wait.
We are just
minutes away from the fly-by
through the Petrova line near Venus.
So. what can you tell us
about the ArcLight probe?
What do we expect to find?
The image we see
will be coming
from the on board microscope.
Um Oh. my God.
Sorry. I have to go now.
Sound waves are physical.
And at different frequencies.
they make different
pattern...
No. pattern...
They make different patt...
Olivia. can you
help me out? There we go!
Whoa!
Yeah.
Are they really eating the sun?
The space dots?
That is a great question. uh. Rekha.
And I'd be curious what
your parents think about that.
I'm not sure it should come from me.
Hey! Who wants to play a game of
the bean bag is lava!
Lava! Lava! Lava!
What is the speed of light. Olivia?
Uh.
It's melting your hands. Olivia!
186.000 miles per second!
Oh! Give her a round of applause.
That is awesome.
What is the Petrova line?
Pass!
You can't pass!
I just did.
Lava! Lava! Lava!
Come on. guys.
Two years ago
a radio telescope enthusiast
named Irina Petrova.
she noticed that there was a streak
of infrared light from the sun to Venus.
And that is now known
as the Petrova line.
That's it.
That's the dots?
They think so.
What dots?
These dots.
They sent a probe up to the Petrova line.
and this is what they found.
Are they eating the sun?
They seem to be
dimming the sun a tiny.
teeny-weeny. little bit.
So. no big whoop.
It's a small whoop.
It's a small-to-medium whoop.
Over the next 30 years. the Earth could
cool maybe 10
to 15 degrees.
So it is a big whoop.
I heard that all the crops will die.
the economy will free-fall.
and half the Earth will die of starvation.
Well.
We're all gonna die!
Yeah. it's true.
You're forgetting something.
Guys. guys! That's if
that were to happen. Right?
They're gonna figure this out.
Right now. the best minds
in the entire world are on it.
Well. I woke up Sunday morning with no
way to hold my head that didn't hurt...
Good morning. Dr. Grace.
I'm up!
Then I headed back for home and somewhere
far away a lonely bell was ringing.
And it echoed through the canyons like
the disappearing dreams of yesterday.
On the Sunday Morning
sidewalk wishing Lord I was stoned.
Cause there's something in a
Sunday makes a body feel alone.
And there's nothing short of
dying half as lonesome as the sound.
On the sleeping city sidewalk
Sunday morning coming down.
Knock. knock.
Who's there?
Not good at jokes.
Not good
at jokes who?
Dr. Grace?
Maybe.
Eva Stratt. I'm with
the Petrova Task Force.
I need your help.
Me.
Did you write this?
Oh.
I'm interested in this section here.
Uh -Page 31.
"The Goldilocks Zone Is For Idiots:
Why Everyone Is Wrong About Life."
That was a long time ago.
Do you stand by what you wrote?
I was fired for standing by what I wrote.
You were fired
for calling the leading
scholar in your field
"a staggering waste of carbon"
at the UNESCO conference in Denmark.
You heard about that. huh?
Look. I don't know what this is.
but. uh. I think I'm not s...
That's lava.
- It's not.
- Okay.
No one in your field
wants anything to do with you
because you refused to back down
from a very unpopular view.
and I can give you a chance
to prove them all wrong.
Uh Kevin. no running.
I'm not.
Well. joke's on them because
I don't even care. So.
I think you do care.
You're running away
because you're scared.
No. I'm not.
Do you still believe water
is unnecessary for life to evolve?
Uh.
Look. there is nothing magical
about hydrogen and oxygen.
Water is required for life on Earth. sure.
But a completely different planet
might have completely
different conditions.
I don't know why
that makes me such a nut.
I need you to come with us.
Sorry. I didn't catch your name.
Carl.
- Carl. Hi.
- Dr. Grace.
Petrova line samples
splashed down last night.
I want you to tell me
what they are. how they work.
I am a teacher
at Grover Cleveland Middle.
And you have a doctorate
in molecular biology.
And I ride a bike to work.
and it's not for exercise.
So I'm sure there are thousands
of other people who are better...
It survives on the surface of the sun.
Does that sound like
a water-based life form to you?
The sun's really dying. isn't it?
Yeah.
Is all of this necessary?
Yes.
Please analyze the Petrova sample.
Um.
Just one thing.
The entire room is filled with argon.
Just try not to rip your suit.
Uh.
Am I expendable?
Is that why you want me?
That's not the only reason.
It's almost like you don't care if I die.
Hold on. You have to talk about it?
The consensus here
is that it would be preferable
if you did not die.
Thanks. guys.
Oh.
Welcome to Earth.
Are they alive?
They're moving.
So they're alive.
Yes. they're moving.
but that could be for many reasons.
What are they made of?
It's gonna take a long ti...
It took like 200 years
to figure out how bacteria works. so.
Please do it faster.
I'm just going through
the whole light spectrum here.
Wow!
You're not gonna believe this.
Nothing happened.
I can't see into these buggers.
Amazing.
X-rays. microwaves.
gamma rays. visible light.
Nothing!
Ooh. ooh. ooh. I've been
dying to do this all day!
It's a cell!
It's a cell. Wake up! It's a cell!
It's a tiny alien cell.
You guys!
Applause.
Guys! This is first contact!
With life outside of the...!
Uh-oh.
Oh. it died.
What?
This is great news.
Now we can find out
what they're made of.
You guys fired up?
Yes!
Right?
Carbon.
Oxygen.
Hydrogen.
Oh.
It's made
almost entirely
of water.
All right.
Sorry if I overreacted in there.
Just. uh. realizing I was wrong
about the only original idea I ever had.
Yeah. What else did you learn?
They give off infrared light
when they move.
Mm-hm.
Like. so much.
I don't know how
they store all that energy.
But. uh. their wavelength is
exactly the Petrova frequency.
The light is how they move.
Yeah. they consume the sun's energy.
and then they expel it for propulsion.
They toot to scoot basically.
Why did it go to Venus?
I don't know.
Okay. We'll tell you.
What?
I have 347 other biologists
in 21 countries
mobilizing as we speak.
So thank you for your help.
I'm glad you didn't die.
Let's pack this up.
Pack up!
That's it?
- That's it. Carl?
- Talk to her.
You're taking all the stuff?
At the school you said
there were thousands of people
more qualified than you. so
- I was being modest.
- I don't need modest.
I need people who think they're right
when everyone else
thinks they're wrong.
I need people who piss other people off.
That's me!
Do you want to be on a project?
If you.
If you think I can help. then.
Just answer the question.
I wanna help the world.
I left you three dots.
Just three. huh?
Plus the one you killed.
I would take the three.
- Yes?
- I'll take the dots.
Get to work. Dr. Grace.
The world is counting on you.
Hey. Carl?
This is Carl.
Imagine for a second
that you're an interstellar microorganism.
I'm not doing that.
Why would you
leave the sun and go to Venus?
Why not stop at Mercury? It's closer.
Maybe fresh air?
Venus's atmosphere
is mostly CO2.
Maybe that's fresh air to them.
You don't know what
these little space dots like.
Hey. Carl?
Do we have an expense account?
We don't.
But I do.
All right. I got something for you.
Thank you.
- Do you have a coupon?
- We don't need a coupon.
- We're the government.
- Which government?
All of 'em.
So this box is Venus.
The box is Venus.
It's set to emit the same
infrared light frequency
as Venus's CO2 atmosphere.
So if the dots move
when you turn the lights on.
that means they're looking for CO2.
Thus proving the Carl Hypothesis.
Sick.
Sorry.
- All right.
You ready?
Uh-oh.
Why you saying "Uh-oh"?
The Astrophage
moved off the slide.
Huh?
We lost them.
What do you mean.
we lost them? Go get them.
If I open the door in the light.
they're gonna escape. and then
we'll lose them forever.
At least now they're in the box.
So we'll just turn the lights off.
But there'll still be light.
It's gotta be total darkness.
Okay. so just put this box in another box.
Nice.
Go ahead and close it. Over.
I can hear you.
Entering phase two.
I'm in.
Please report. Over.
There's one.
There's two!
Come on! Get the third one.
Got sample three.
The Three Musketeers.
The Three Stooges.
Uh-oh.
What? What?
Are you sitting down?
No. I'm standing like a grown man.
'Cause there's a fourth.
What?
We're fathers. Carl.
Now I'm sitting down.
Stratt.
Carl and I made a baby.
What?
We figured out how Astrophage breeds.
Don't move.
Wheels up.
You know. Carl.
when Stratt said she was sending a jet.
I thought you meant
like a PJ or something.
- I know.
- Take this.
Been a long time since I've taken a pill
from a stranger
without knowing what it was.
Oh my God! Stop!
Dr. Grace. how was your flight?
- Where are we?
- The ocean.
The Astrophage reproduction.
Can you do it at scale?
Oh. in theory. you just get
a bunch of elbow-shaped pipe.
put sunlight in one end...
Excuse me for a second.
- Write it down.
- Yes. ma'am.
and IR light and CO2
in the other. Repeat.
Anything else you need for...
Just some water.
He gave me a pill
and it's still in my throat.
Two venti coffees.
Thank you so much. Water for him.
Or coffee. That's
I need both.
Or not.
Okay. so this is kind of a tough room.
so don't take it personally.
I don't need anything fancy.
As long as there's a bed
and a shower I'm good.
- I can't do this.
- Come on. Yes.
- I can't. I can't.
- You're doing great.
Everyone. this is Dr. Ryland Grace
from the United States.
Please go here. Thank you.
And he figured out
how to breed Astrophage.
How did you do it?
How long
does the process take?
Does it reproduce by mitosis or meiosis?
What is the incubation period?
Um
Carl and I made a mini Venus
out of a plywood box.
and as soon as the samples recognized
the. uh. spectral signature
of CO2. they were.
They were like. "Whoomp! There it is!"
Okay.
You can sit down.
Who's Carl?
While your experiment
was crude and clumsy.
our scientists have replicated his results.
I'm sorry. how did you see...?
We estimate an eight-day doubling time
under optimal conditions.
- Dr. Grace is right.
- Oh.
It is the CO2.
That's why
they're going to Venus.
Please say it for everyone.
That's why they're going to Venus.
So that's why they're going to Venus.
is what Dr. Grace wants to say.
They're going to breed.
Whoomp! There it is.
I really like him.
How long to make two million kilogram?
Two million?
Two million is...
Why
on earth would you need
that much Astrophage?
Nobody told him?
He has no clearance.
Please stand up. Dr. Grace.
Stand up.
I hereby grant you top-secret clearance
to all information pertaining
to Project Hail Mary.
What's Project Hail Mary?
All right.
The sun is not the only star dying.
There is a clear pattern of infection.
Every star was infected
by its neighbor except one.
Tau Ceti?
That's right. 11.9 light years away.
It is uninfected
despite being well within
the cluster of infected stars.
Why?
Why? Tell him.
We don't know!
Which is why we decided to build a ship
to go there and find out.
It's 11.9 light years away.
You can't just build an interstellar ship.
Oh yeah. we can.
The ship is not really the problem.
The energy required to power
the ship is the problem.
It was the problem.
The Astrophage is the fuel.
Provided we can make enough of it.
And for that. we need you. my friend.
Me?
Ooh. Those little guys
store a lot of energy.
One mistake and that much Astrophage
could vaporize California.
That's true. which is why
you now live on a boat
in the middle of the ocean in case
- I live on a boat?
- You do.
So you wanna build
a near-light speed spaceship.
have it travel further
than any human-made object
has ever traveled.
and visit a star just to "see what's up"?
Yeah.
And then what?
There won't be
enough fuel for a round-trip
so they send their findings
back to Earth on probes.
And the astronauts
die in space?
Yes.
Space.
Any other plans you've thought of?
Anything else you're kicking around?
There are infinite possibilities
for this to go wrong.
It almost certainly won't work.
It's what you Americans
would call a long shot.
Hail Mary.
I get it now.
The alternative is to just do nothing
and to starve and to kill each other
and watch everything
on this planet go extinct.
including us.
So.
That's a long time to be in space.
They'll be in comas for most of it.
But is that even safe?
Nothing about this is safe.
We only need three.
A pilot.
An engineer.
And a scientist.
Commander Yáo.
I must have known you.
but I just don't remember.
You make a funny face
in literally every picture.
You must have been very smart
and strong
and brave.
Ilyukhina.
First. I owe you three bags of vodka.
You seemed to have had a lot of friends.
This picture of you.
what looks like sneaking into the Kremlin
is legendary.
I wish you were still here.
I wish I wasn't alone.
I wish I was
doing a better job. I just. uh.
You were both very loved.
You deserve much more than this.
I'll do my best
to make sure that you don't
you know. that you didn't...
I'll do my best.
Approaching Tau Ceti orbit.
Prepare for engine cutoff.
Fourteen. thirteen
What?
Why engine cutoff?
Seems like something
we should talk about.
Pilot detected.
What? No. I'm not a pilot!
Four. three.
What happens at zero? I mean...
You are now orbiting Tau Ceti.
What the fudging fudger?
Petrov a scope operational.
It's Tau Ceti.
You have a Petrova line.
But you're not dimming.
Why?
What is that?
Blip-A detected.
What's a Blip-A?
No. no. No. no. no.
Let's go. Let's go. Mary.
No-No-No-No!
Pilot detected!
Please engage restraint.
- Pilot detected.
- We're getting outta here.
Engage spin drive.
- Engage the spin drive.
- Incorrect.
Welcome to the Hail Mary.
Is it this thing?
Erratic maneuver detected.
Yeah.
Blip-A detected.
What do they want?
What?
Blip-B detected.
What's a Bl...?
Current distance
from Hail Mary is 800 meters.
It's sending me something.
It could be a message.
It could be a bomb.
Is it a bomb?
Shields up!
There are no shields
on board the Hail Mary.
Why not?
Thirty meters.
Twenty meters. Ten.
Well. I guess there's egg
on both our faces. huh. Mary?
- Blip-C detected.
- What's that?
Why is it moving so much
slower than the last one?
They think I'm dumb.
If we were gonna catch it.
what would we do?
Would you like to go
on a space walk. Dr. Grace?
To begin your space walk.
put on your EVA suit
and proceed to the airlock.
Yeah.
Yes!
No.
That's just crazy.
Righty tighty. lefty loosey.
Xenon's a gas. I think this thing's broken.
We need equipment
to analyze the Astrophage
at Tau Ceti. Correct?
- Dr. Grace.
- Sorry. Hi.
Most of
this equipment won't work
in zero gravity.
And we have a team
to develop and build
zero gravity versions of this equipment.
We would need years for that.
and we have months.
What's the alternative?
We make gravity.
Centrifuge?
Centrifuge.
They used them to make butter
during the Civil War.
actually.
It's a fun fact.
Lab operational.
Still Xenon!
Up is down! Left is right! Xenon's a solid!
Aliens are real!
I'm wrong about everything
and everything's wrong.
Lefty tighty. righty loosey.
I mean...
Oh no!
Foreign presence detected.
You're a long way from home.
I'm a long way from home too.
Blip-D detected.
Is that me?
My ship.
I don't understand.
Oh.
You want me
to go back in my ship?
But I just got here.
Oh. Okay.
Okay.
I'll talk to you later.
Bye.
What are they doing. Mary?
It is not advised
to modify the centrifugal
settings of the ship.
Thank you. Mary.
What?
Oh my.
This is new.
Anybody home?
I like what you've done with the gravity.
I made you a ship.
It's ramen.
I only made one.
I'm not sure how many of you there are.
Hi.
No-No-No-No-No! I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
You scared me when you went:
Wow.
Can't seem to see a face.
Mysterious.
Faces are overrated.
You like tapping. huh?
This is fun.
You're pointing.
You're not tapping. Sorry.
Another present.
I don't have one of these.
I love it! Thank you.
What. I put this on my head?
Take off my head?
Take my helmet off?
No.
It'll
That's a big ask.
Oh.
This has taken a turn.
Thank you for
what I hope is not handcuffs.
And I'm sorry
about the whole helmet thing.
Unfortunately. I need oxygen
to breathe. so
Two rings of eight.
You little rascal.
This is oxygen!
I still don't think
I can do it. though. Sorry.
It's just. uh
if I'm wrong. I'm really wrong.
Okay.
It's the Petrova line.
We're here for the same reason.
You have a Petrova line problem too.
You need to solve it. I need to solve it.
That's why you made me this.
I'm gonna take that as a yes.
If we're gonna save our planets.
we have to learn how to communicate.
You know. they say math
is the universal language.
I thought maybe we find out
if that's true?
You see the numbers?
Oh. you want this?
Whoa! Christmas Eve. that is.
It's really hot in there. Is that ammonia?
Anyway. that's.
Look. see the numbers?
No. They're on the other side.
Do it again. If you do it again and you...
Don't let it snap back.
Don't do it. Don't do it.
Hold it like that. And you look...
Wow. Wow.
How 'bout something else?
Look at this.
A clock.
We both have time. Right?
These are the hands.
and these are the numbers.
One. two. three.
They point to the numbers.
And if you'll notice.
there's numbers there.
and there's also numbers here.
Okay.
It is dark.
I got an idea.
Wait.
Don't Yeah.
Don't go anywhere. Stay.
Oh. Oh yeah.
I'm Grace.
I'm gonna call you Rocky.
You know. 'cause you look
like a giant rock. Oh!
Um. I'm fine.
Echolocation. Right?
You need surfaces to see.
Try this.
You see the numbers?
What is that?
Is that good?
Jazz hands means "good"?
We do this.
Your version of this
is our thumbs up.
Nope. That's thumbs down.
We do the thumbs up.
It's close enough.
You want me to wait? I wait?
Yeah. No.
I'm really excited to be
working with you on this.
Fired up.
I'm sorry I'm talking so much.
It's just. I haven't been
around anyone in a long time.
Oh.
What have we got here?
It's a clock.
I showed you a clock
and you're showing me a clock.
We're. uh. clock bros.
Right.
Um. I gotta be honest.
I'm not sure
I'm getting all of this.
Check this out.
I thought I might record you.
Oh. no-no. No. That's okay.
It's just a microphone. Works like this.
Let's start with one.
One.
No-No. wait. wait. wait. Sorry.
Okay. One.
And
One!
Okay.
So. uh
I met an alien.
And we're learning to communicate.
Let's do names.
Okay. let's start with you.
Rocky.
You done?
My name...
Can't wait to hear this.
Is Grace.
What's your word
for my name? Go ahead.
You know.
enough to order at restaurants.
We have about 250 words.
My atmosphere
would kill him and his. me.
But I like to keep a wall up
in my relationships anyways.
He's a mechanic. I think.
He uses a metal form of xenon.
He can make anything.
Look at this.
I'm calling it "xenonite."
And if I can't understand
what he's saying.
which is most of the time.
he puts on a little puppet show
for me and my tiny brain.
And you know what? I don't mind it.
He's kinda growing on me.
At least he's not
growing in me. you know?
Which was a concern for a little while.
His sun is dying too.
So maybe we can help each other.
Recognize this?
We call it "Astrophage."
It means star-eater.
"Astrophage on me star."
"Bad. bad. bad. bad.
bad. bad. bad." Yeah.
Same.
Why are you alone?
Twenty-three?
Wow. Um.
What happened to them?
I'm sorry.
How did they die?
Oh.
Um.
There were three of us.
and two died on the way here.
I wish I knew why.
Now it's only me.
Correction.
Deal.
Called a fist bump. by the way.
What's that?
"Fist my bump"?
No. It's fist bump.
It's not the same.
Exactly. The Astrophage
has to reach Tau Ceti.
Otherwise. we wouldn't
see the Petrova line.
Do we really
need this whole model?
Right.
Oh boy.
You know. I used to have
one of these in my classroom.
and it was a lot simpler to set up.
One sec. What? What?
That is a great question.
You know what? Try this.
Why is a schoolteacher
in space. question?
- No.
- Don't like that voice.
- Can't unhear it. really.
- Scary.
Let's try this.
- Ooh.
- Nope.
Why is a schoolteacher in space?
No need to even continue. Nope.
Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
What's so funny. question?
Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
I mean
It has charm. but no.
Meryl Streep?
Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
She can do anything.
Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
Don't think so.
Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
That's not bad.
- I like.
- All right.
And in answer to your question.
I have no idea what I'm doing in space.
I don't remember.
Is okay.
Grace find out when Grace go home.
I'm gonna go to sleep.
No understand word.
Sleep?
Uh. just. you go like this.
Died? Is died? Died?
No-No-No-No-No.
No. Not died. Just lay here
for 29.000 seconds and then
we wake up!
Oh. Understand.
We call this:
Okay. Here we go.
Sleep.
Good night. sir.
I watch Grace sleep.
No. that's fine.
That's a little weird.
I'll be good. Good night!
No. not safe.
Eridians must watch sleep.
That's really interesting.
That sounds like something.
We can unpack that tomorrow.
Rocky watch crew many days.
Crew not wake up.
That's where you're gonna be?
No. it's usually closer.
On your chest.
I wonder if it would work
from a little farther back.
But Grace won't
feel comfortable and safe.
Well Hey. look. I'm seeing
so many sides of you lately.
and it's great.
Right now I'm seeing
the underside of you.
Kind of a side sleeper anyway.
Good night.
So. we watch each other sleep.
Eridians don't sleep like a human does.
They seem legitimately paralyzed.
If danger comes. he can't wake up.
It's a survival norm.
Someone has to keep you safe.
Attention: Mission update.
Scientific objective completed.
Flight team. I want
you to meet Dr. Ryland Grace.
He is currently
the world's leading authority
in Astrophage biology.
Dr. Grace. these are the three astronauts
going on the mission
and their backups for redundancy.
Yáo. Ilyukhina. and Dubois.
Our pilot. engineer. and science officer.
It's an honor.
I'm excited to share
what I've learned about
Astrophage and spin drives.
We have 1.009 of these
Little Engines That Could
on the Hail Mary and...
Okay.
- You're doing great.
- What?
Once the mission is complete.
we have the option
to end our lives on our terms.
The alternative is slow
miserable death by starvation.
I want to do lethal injection
with a little bit of heroin.
I will have what she's having.
Following on
from Dr. Grace's discovery.
we've built an IR emitter
set to the wavelength of CO2.
which attracts the Astrophage
to this revolver face.
The drive then rotates outwards. yeah?
We increase the IR.
the Astrophage get excited.
thrust the ship forward.
and so on and so on.
This is less than a gram of Astrophage.
and we only need a fraction of this
for this demonstration.
if you want to take a look.
To do what?
To melt a metric ton of metal.
Powerful stuff.
Commander Yáo.
I really appreciate what you all are doing.
You would do the same.
I would choose just not to go at all.
I don't have the bravery gene
that you all have. Trust me.
It's not a gene.
You just need to find someone
to be brave for.
Movement detected.
Hi. Grace.
You're in a ball!
So Rocky
no die in Grace atmosphere.
- I come up.
- Oh. you're coming up.
Foreign body detected.
Grace and Rocky big science
how to kill Astrophage together.
I keep going this way?
- This room boring.
- Rocky!
Science. Save Earth.
Save Erid. Good plan.
No! No! No!
What this down here. question?
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Rocky want to see human technology.
Dirty. dirty. dirty. Dirty. dirty.
Why room so messy. question?
Well. I wasn't expecting company. was I?
Is this room for garbage? Oh.
- Dirty. dirty. dirty.
- No. This is the lab.
This is where the science happens.
- What this? What this?
- That's the evaporator. Whoa!
What this?
That is the disco ball.
That makes me happy.
Rocky will build workshop here.
Will need much room for Rocky
and much less space for Grace.
What is happening here?
We go Petrova line.
We collect Astrophage.
We study it. We go home.
We collect. We save Earth.
And when you say "we." uh. where?
I see Grace!
- Apology. apology. apology.
- Whoa! Enough!
- Rocky. stay!
- Rocky new to ball.
Rocky. my hand is up.
We can't just show up
in a space ball unannounced
and move into someone else's
spaceship. Right?
- There has to be boundaries.
- Boundaries.
- We have one mission.
- Mission.
But we're two distinct individuals.
Individuals.
Both working on our distinct
individual parts of that mission.
- Mission.
- Separately.
- Okay.
- Where my bedroom?
- Bedroom?
For what?
So I have a new roommate now.
Be careful back there. okay?
The chore wheel's pretty lopsided.
Where on earth does that go?
- Not on Earth. More high.
- It goes this way?
- Wall. Wall.
- All the way out to here?
- Yes. Out. pointy.
- What?
He tells me what to do.
he tells me why to do it.
he tells me how to do it.
he tells me when to do it.
And then when I do it.
he's like. "What are you doing?"
I'm just saying you're gonna
get out of the ball
to get into a much bigger ball?
Yes. For sleeping.
Sounds like
you're having an argument.
You don't even use a bed!
Conflict is normal
amongst crew members.
You have the Hellraiser thing
that you sleep on.
- What do you need a bed for?
- Grumpy. angry. stupid.
How long since last sleep. question?
Don't talk to...
Armando. Yes. Can I help you?
You're doing this.
It's a lot of this.
And then he's like.
"No understand. no understand."
And then it's like
"Need a word."
You know
what the word is? Bossy.
I'm like one of the villains
in the Superman movie.
I'm just. like. trapped in hell.
Get me out of here!
His eating habits are
exotic.
Grace look disgust when eat.
How do you look when you eat?
- Is look beautiful.
- Show me.
Oh my God.
He has incredible hearing.
He can see through walls.
Personal space is at a premium.
Who is Grace
talking to. question?
There's no way
you can hear me right now.
Can hear.
Who are you talking to?
You can hear this?
Yes. Grace say.
"You can hear this?"
- What about this?
- Yes.
Oh my God. Look at this.
Look how far away he is.
- That is where he is.
- Hello. Grace.
- He's right here. Okay?
- Hello. Grace Friend.
Did Grace find sampler instruction?
Yes. I found
the sampler instruct...
Yes. I found the sampler instructions.
He's really smart
about some things.
Oh my God. he's got a gun!
Oh. This? No. no. no.
This to screen in front.
and now this to that over here.
Now Rocky can hear screen.
- Please don't point it at me.
- Oh. Point over here.
- Yes.
- Oh. okay. Now over there.
You're pointing at me again.
But his species
doesn't know about things
like relativity and radiation.
And the rest of the crew?
- In mid of ship. There.
- In here?
And where did you keep the Astrophage?
Fuel tanks
next to Rocky workshop there.
I think the radiation is what
made your crew sick. Rock.
The Astrophage probably
just protected you from it.
This isn't something
that you could have fixed.
But I guess together
we're. you know. pretty smart.
Since we're only gonna
be able to intersect
with the Petrova line for a few seconds.
we're not gonna have enough
time to get a good sample.
Too fast.
Do puppet show. Too fast.
I don't want to do the puppet show.
No. do puppet show.
This is us. We're. you know. flying along.
The problem is.
because the solar system
is constantly moving.
the Petrova line is gonna
constantly be moving. Right?
Am I still doing it?
- You still want it?
- Yes. yes. Show time.
So we're not gonna have time
to get the sample.
No. no. no.
Use planet gravity to move with line.
You mean sort of like rest in its orbit?
Yes.
- I didn't think of that.
- I did.
We figured out a plan.
We're gonna orbit the planet
where Astrophage breeds.
collect a sample and figure out
why it's not eating Tau Ceti.
Who is Grace talking to?
I'm not talking to anyone.
I need a break.
- Break from what?
- Oh my God.
Forget it.
this isn't gonna work.
150 million kilometers away.
Racing along
at 162 kilometers per second.
Means we should arrive
at Tau Ceti-e at...
Arrival at Tau Ceti-e
in 11 days. 3 hours and 14 minutes.
- Thank you. Mary.
- You're welcome. Dr. Grace.
- You're welcome. Rocky.
Welcome to Earth.
You are in
the Mental Health Node.
Whoa. whoa. whoa!
Careful. Rocky. Rock. Look out below.
The beach is always changing.
You could go to the same spot every day.
you're always looking
at a different beach.
Trees.
And you climb. and you climb
to the top if you can.
He's so excited about us
both getting to go home.
There's no harm in pretending
for a little while.
Touch the wave. Rock.
Touching the wave.
Is wiping out. Hanging ten.
Hey! Oh!
The Big Apple. baby.
In Three. Apollo trains him.
And in Seven. he trains Apollo's kid.
Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!
- Punch. punch. punch. punch.
- Nice!
- Adrian!
- Rocky!
♪ I say either. you say ♪
♪ Say either ♪
Nope.
- ♪ I say neither. you say ♪
- ♪ Ne-i-ther ♪
No.
I like Earth.
I miss the fog.
What about you. Rock?
What do you miss most about home?
Hmm. my mate.
Wait. what?
- You got a mate?
- Yes.
I mean. not that you... I mean...
What's their name?
Name is:
It's beautiful.
Grace have mate. question?
No.
I mean. I did.
But she thought
I had my head in the clouds
and I didn't really want
to live in the real world.
She was right.
Anyway. now she's with Mark.
Rocky hate Mark.
But enough about me. You have a mate.
How long you been together?
186.3 years.
It's like the honeymoon phase.
- No understand.
- That's a joke. Rock.
That's a long time.
You've been together a long time.
Is not enough.
♪ Like brothers ♪
♪ The future's in the air ♪
♪ I can feel it everywhere ♪
♪ Blowing With the wind of change ♪
Permission
to come aboard. captain.
You're already aboard.
Did you get your free hat?
- Yeah. I kinda bought them.
- Oh.
You don't sing. huh?
Yeah. I do.
I actually sang in
an Eastern German youth choir.
You're very mysterious.
No. I'm not.
I always wanted to be
mysterious.
Talk too much. That's my problem.
Like right now.
I didn't mean to bother you.
You don't bother me.
It is such a weird party.
Is it?
Yáo is singing.
Everyone's so happy.
People are hooking up.
and they all know they're gonna die.
Camaraderie helps them
do their job. you know.
Not so much me. So.
Must be hard having to ask everybody to
you know.
Actually it isn't.
Yeah.
So. what do you think?
You think you're gonna pull it off?
What. the whole thing?
Yeah.
God willing.
You believe in God?
It beats the alternative.
♪ Just stop your crying ♪
♪ It's a sign of the times ♪
♪ Welcome to the final show ♪
♪ I hope you're wearing
your best clothes ♪
♪ You can't bribe the door
on your way to the sky ♪
♪ You look pretty good Down here ♪
♪ But you ain't really good Oh ♪
♪ We never learn
We've been here before ♪
♪ Why are we always stuck
and running from ♪
♪ The bullets? ♪
♪ The bullets ♪
♪ Just stop your crying
It's a sign of the times ♪
♪ We gotta get away from here ♪
♪ Just stop your crying It'll be all right ♪
♪ They told me That the end is near ♪
♪ We gotta get away From here. oh ♪
♪ Just stop your crying
Have the time of your life ♪
♪ Breaking through The atmosphere ♪
♪ And it all looks good From here ♪
♪ Remember Everything will be all right ♪
♪ We can meet again somewhere ♪
♪ Somewhere far Away from here ♪
And that is enough.
I wish you could see this. Rock.
Rocky can see.
Boring.
What? This is not boring.
Name of planet
Tau Ceti-e is same name
as star plus "E."
Boring.
I guess it could be a little more evocative.
Astrophage sampler
in position. question?
Yep.
Trays are live. looking both ways.
It is time go.
It's time go.
What is Grace doing. question?
I'm having a moment.
You know. back on Earth.
if you discover something.
you get to name it.
You were technically
the first one here. so.
Yes. name is Medium-Rough
Texture Circle Planet.
'Kay.
Well. if Medium-Rough Texture
Circle Planet was taken.
we'll just have a backup.
Maybe go with something personal.
Personal.
What's your mate's name again?
Name is
It's okay.
it's okay. I remember.
Need human word for Rocky mate.
Adrian.
Is beautiful.
Well. that's weird.
What?
It's the same amount.
both coming and going.
But if Astrophage
going to Adrian to breed.
there should be more leaving.
It should be double.
It doesn't make sense.
It's either not reproducing
or it's not leaving the planet
for some reason.
Oh. my God.
What? What Grace see?
What Grace see. question?
Life.
This is not just Astrophage.
It's bacteria. it's protozoa.
It's like cells on Erid.
And Earth.
What this mean. question?
Well. if there's a whole active biosphere
in the Petrova line.
it stands to reason there's
a whole active biosphere
on Adrian. which means.
There's life on Adrian.
- Oh. Grace! Grace!
- Yeah?
Life. Life is reason. Life is reason!
Yeah. You said it. buddy.
Life is the reason.
No understand. No understand.
Use your words.
Life's the reason for what?
- Life is reason.
- Life is the reason for what?
Life is reason. Life is reason.
Life is reason what?
Life on Adrian is reason.
Astrophage in balance.
Life on Adrian makes Astrophage die.
Like a predator.
Yes.
That would keep the population stable.
Grace. if we bring predator home
our stars not die.
Life is reason star not die.
Why didn't you just say that?
If there is some kind
of microbial predator on Adrian.
it'll be in the clouds
where Astrophage breeds.
Check. Oh.
The problem is this ship
wasn't built to go into the atmosphere.
If we get within five kilometers.
we'll be ripped into a million pieces
and then we'll burn up.
Game over.
Game not over.
I make chain. I make long chain.
I put collection device on end.
Oh. yeah. yeah.
Five kilometers of chain. Sure.
- Guard me!
- Like this chain. Look.
- You can do that?
- Yes.
Kinda like fishing.
What that?
Whoa. whoa!
Fishing! Can you believe it?
- It could work.
- Thumbs up. baby.
Hello. Earth!
Plan is like fishing.
We get very close to Adrian atmosphere
and lower collector
into clouds with chain.
Then Grace go on hull to reel it in.
If ship not at precise
angle and speed. we die!
Example!
We must fly backwards
to keep proper velocity.
even though Grace
still have no pilot experience.
But I've been practicing. haven't I?
- More! No. Left. Be left.
- What?
More left. More left.
Is perfect. No. Wrong.
Erratic maneuver detected.
No. Wrong way. Wrong angle.
Bad. bad. bad. Good. good. good.
Good. Bad. Not enough.
Not enough. Too much! Left. left. left.
I'm barely pulling it!
No. is bad. Grace Rocky dead.
All Rocky plural. all Earth. die.
- Power off.
- We die. We die.
Rocky has built predator collector.
Rocky chain spooled and ready.
Grace pilot training not as good.
What think. Earth?
Hello?
- They can't hear you. pal.
- What?
We're not actually talking
to Earth. Earth's too far away.
We just record these messages
and we tell 'em what we've learned.
and then when we're done.
we'll send them all back in a probe.
Why not you tell them yourself
when you return home. question?
Yeah.
This is a one-way ticket for me. pal.
What?
We had enough
Astrophage to get here
but not enough to get back.
So.
what happens Grace. question?
Oh I got enough food to last me
at least a couple years.
Maybe a couple more if I stretch it out.
So Grace die. question?
Yeah. once we're done. I'm.
I'm gonna die.
Why didn't you tell me?
It slipped my mind.
No. Grace say Grace go home.
Look.
- Listen. Listen. Listen.
- No. No.
I got to meet you.
I got to do all this amazing stuff.
I'm good. I've made peace with it.
What mean? What mean "make peace"?
It means
I know I'm not going home
I know why
and it's okay.
- Thumbs up?
- No.
- Tiny thumbs up?
We got stars to save. Okay?
- Grace?
- Yeah.
You are
Need word.
W-W-What word do you need?
To risk self to help another.
Uh. dumb.
Grace?
How much Astrophage
you need. question?
Two million kilograms.
I can give.
I go home six years slower.
That's too much.
Rocky watch crew die.
Could not fix.
Grace say Grace will die.
Rocky fix.
Grace go home.
Okay.
I thought you made peace. question?
I didn't mean any of that.
That's just something you say.
Thank you.
Get over here.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
What? What's happening?
- A hug.
- Oh! Hmm.
It's usually not something
one does by themselves.
Oh. Wait. I do the same?
Would you just get in here?
How do you know when the hug is done?
- You just feel it.
- Oh.
Are you feeling it now?
Nope.
Oh. Oh. okay. Yeah.
We ran the sampler
simulation again this morning.
Shapiro and Dubois nailed it again.
Okay. What about the others?
They'll be ready.
I expect so.
They have a great teacher.
Can you take a compliment please?
No.
It's an order. Okay?
Okay. If it's an order.
I'll take it. Thank you.
Good.
What do you think?
It's pretty impressive.
- Yeah.
- You're...
You're good.
Three days. huh?
Yeah.
So. what are you gonna do
for the next 20 years?
You got a plan?
Manual mode activated.
Go.
That's not half bad!
Is full good.
Time go fishing. question?
It's now or never.
- Three thousand meters.
- Three thousand.
Probe signal good.
Now comes the fun part.
Grace go out on hull
to retrieve collector?
No fun at all.
It's a joke.
Oh. humor. Confusing.
You gotta be kidding me.
What problem. question?
It's fine. It's just
the sky is slightly on fire.
Words of encouragement.
You can't just say
"words of encouragement."
Words of great encouragement.
Nope.
- Did you feel that?
- Yes.
I'm not worried. Are you worried?
Yes.
Great.
Collector is closed.
Move winch into position.
Whoa!
How long is this supposed to take?
Collector should be here soon.
Yeah. It's here.
Amaze. amaze. amaze!
Careful. Collector important.
Yup.
Altitude warning.
Oh. hurry. hurry.
Hurry. hurry.
Grace?
Grace. status update.
Status update.
Grace?
Grace is safe. question?
I'm okay.
Good. good. good.
Come inside with predator collector now.
Uh.
Why not moving. question?
Warning!
Exterior temperature elevated.
Must move now. Go. go.
No. Grace. Bad idea. Come inside.
I'll be there in a minute.
No. no. no.
no. no. Grace will die.
Can repeat mission. Can try again later.
I don't think there is gonna be a later.
Abort. abort. abort.
Grace will die.
No-No-No-No-No-No-No-No-No.
- Grace?
- I'm here!
Amaze. amaze. amaze!
Grace okay. question?
Well. I'm not dead. so yes.
Good. good. good. good.
Where
is that noise coming from?
Noise is from all around.
It's loudest at port side of bedroom.
The gravity's
tearing the ship apart.
We leave now. question?
We leave now. statement.
Hull pressure warning.
Hull bending
in big room below bedroom.
That's the fuel tanks.
- Oh. Bad. bad. bad.
- Well. it's not great.
- Bad. bad. bad.
- Warning.
Everybody. calm down. Calm down!
Try and keep yourself together. Mary.
- Stop engine now?
- Not yet.
We need to get into orbit or we'll crash!
I have an idea. First. no crash.
Then. not explode. Deal?
Deal!
Hold on.
Now?
Wait.
Now? Now?
Now!
Did we do it?
Why ship moving. question?
There's a hole in it!
Hull breach.
Port side fuel compartments 11 and 12.
Grace. What happening. question?
The fuel is migrating to Adrian!
Eject bad fuel bay. question?
Yeah.
Jettison port fuel tank
compartment 12. Confirm.
Rocky!
Jettison port fuel tank
compartment 11. Confirm.
Eject other fuel bay.
One nanogram of Astrophage
just isn't enough to blow up a building.
The quartermaster gave him
one milligram by mistake.
That's a million times the heat energy
that they're prepared for.
A measuring mistake
killed my entire science team?
It doesn't matter. We have to launch.
If we miss the orbital window.
it'll set us back months.
Yeah. but if no one's trained
to do the mission. it won't matter.
Casualty projections
go up exponentially
if we delay.
We launch on schedule
with a replacement science officer.
Okay. but
who?
I mean. that
I'm not an astronaut.
I don't need an astronaut.
I need an expert on Astrophage
who's mission-ready.
I'm not ready.
I don't have any
training.
You'll pick it up.
I'm not an astronaut!
I put the "not" in astronaut.
I've never done anything...
I've never done a space wa...
I can't even moonwalk!
I haven't done the whole pool thing.
No. no. no. This is just we do
for the picture.
for social media.
I'm not heroic in any way.
I get sick on an elevator.
Oh. perfect. There's
no elevator on the ship.
I cannot do this.
You're smart. You'll figure it out.
This might be very hard
for you to understand.
but some people are failures.
Some people don't rise to the challenge.
You've been present
for every major scientific
or strategic meeting
we've had on the mission.
You're missing out an
important part of the mission
which is the suicide part.
Grace. you'd be in very cool company.
If you don't go. you die anyway.
Yeah. but I die in 30 years with...
"With the rest of us."
You have no immediate family.
You don't even have a dog.
So. just so I'm clear
you're asking me right now
to give up my life.
I am. We all are.
Can I think about this?
You have three hours.
Eye movement detected.
Good morning. Dr. Grace.
I'll watch you sleep. pal.
But. uh
you gotta wake up.
I'm not sure what to do.
Done everything I can think of.
I made him a heat lamp.
And he left me one last message.
We have our predator.
Right now I'm calling it "Taumoeba."
And I'm sure that when you wake up.
you'll have a lot to say
about why that's a bad name
because it's just
an amoeba from Tau Ceti.
and we're putting "Tau"
in front of "amoeba."
But I would argue there's
an elegance to that.
A simplicity.
Let's not fight about it now.
We'll table it and we'll...
I did a test at different
atmospheric variables
and. fun fact. every time
I introduced nitrogen
it died.
And I know what you're thinking.
"Well. that's terrible
because that's a problem
'cause we need it to survive
in the conditions of Venus."
Obviously. I had to figure out
how to breed
a new strain of
nitrogen-resistant Taumoeba.
And guess what I used?
The breeder tanks that we made
with your xenonite.
And you know what?
Now we're just
a couple of very cool dudes
with their very own strain of
nitrogen-resistant Taumoeba.
Really. all we have to do now
is breed enough to survive the trip.
And you gotta wake up
because I don't know how to get
your half of the Taumoeba to Erid.
So.
No pressure
but we did make a deal.
Shh.
Grace?
Rock. could you just
give me a little chance please
to sleep a little?
Did we find predator?
No? Is yes.
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Rocky breeder tank design.
Good job. Rock.
We can go home. statement.
We can go home.
Fist my bump.
Nope.
It's still not right.
- I'll do it.
- Good. good. good.
So what we do now. question?
We party.
Wow.
Is special clothing
for celebration.
You're making me think
that I have to. uh. up my game.
- What is this?
- If you don't mind.
- Rocky get one!
- There you go.
- Is good.
- Yeah.
It's not much. Just a little something.
Your very own laptop.
My portable Earth thinking-machine!
With all human knowledge.
Thank. thank. thank.
And just one more thing.
Yes?
What this?
It's Earth.
So you can remember me.
Rocky can't forget.
I didn't get you anything.
You gave me everything.
But if I were to
give you something?
It'd be pretty cool to see your ship.
I understand that you think
I'm the right person for this mission.
But.
I can't do it.
You'll find a solution.
You are my solution.
My place is in the classroom.
Stop pretending
this is about your students.
It's so insulting.
Grace. we will lose
a quarter of the world's population
in the next 30 years.
And that assumes
that the nations of the world
work together to ration food.
Which they won't.
So I'd double the estimate.
And if you would
truly care about the children.
or anyone else for that matter.
you'd get on that ship.
I understand the stakes.
I do.
But I don't have it in me.
My mind is made up.
I'm sorry. but. uh.
But you just can't talk me into it.
I'm sorry.
I'm not trying to talk you into anything.
I am
trying to make you understand
what I'm about to do next.
Yeah? Please.
Stay calm. Come in.
What is this?
Mission plan will state that
we induced your coma early
to maximize your safety.
You will be remembered as a hero.
Come on. This is crazy.
- I have to do it.
- You're not.
Come on. What are you doing?
This may seem like me betraying you.
but it's actually me believing in you.
Sure feels like you're betraying me.
Don't make this harder. please.
Come on. guys.
Let's keep talking about it.
Sit down
and we do it differently.
Yeah. he's running.
No.
No. No.
Carl. I can't do it.
No!
Don't do it! Don't do it! Don't do it.
You know who you are.
Carl!
You're gonna do great.
I'm trying to think
if there's anything I forgot.
Fuel tank fix okay. question?
Oh. yeah. yeah. They're working great.
Oh. good. Happy. happy. happy.
Well.
My friend.
Yes. friend?
I'm not sure what to say. so just gonna.
Grace?
No one to watch you sleep.
Yeah.
You are very brave.
Oh. I don't know about that.
You are bravest human
I have ever met.
Hey.
- Is joke.
- I know.
I only meet one human. and is you!
I get it.
It's a good joke.
Good joke.
All right. Well
Goodbye.
No understand word.
Means. uh. see you later.
But I won't see you later.
I know.
How do you say goodbye back home?
We don't.
Hmm.
We do this.
Journey to Earth
will take 4 years. 2 months and 11 days.
Lava! Lava!
Lava!
Contaminant detected.
There's a leak.
The problem is the xenonite.
The Taumoeba can get through it.
Probably 'cause we bred it
in the xenonite breeder tanks.
it evolved to escape it.
I was able to stop it
before it ate all the
Astrophage on the ship.
Rocky's ship is built of xenonite.
The Taumoeba will already
be in his fuel lines.
And he won't be able to find the leak
because the leak is the ship itself.
He'll be without any fuel. Stranded.
His life support systems will fail.
And if that doesn't kill him.
the radiation sickness will.
He's looking at a long
slow
painful death
alone.
I can't do both.
I can go home
or I can save Rocky.
I've sent you detailed logs
of all of our findings.
And enough Taumoeba for you
to start your very own Taumoeba farm.
At least I never have to hear you say.
"I told you so."
Even though you were right.
Rocky!
Hey!
Come on. Rock!
I'm here. buddy.
Earth. Rocky.
Rocky. Earth.
Hello. Earth. I am Rocky.
I am Rocky from Erid.
I am not Rocky from movie.
No. no. no. no.
I'm pretty sure they know that.
I've left you detailed logs
of all of our findings
and I threw in a little
something else just for fun.
Hopefully it all makes sense.
And if not.
You're smart.
You'll figure it out.
This is Dr. Captain Ryland Grace
reporting from the Hail Mary.
As the Eridians say
Let's begin.
Good morning. Armando.
You shouldn't have.
That's a noogie.
I'm coming!
(Why so long?)
Why you always gotta be so early?
(I knocked and knocked on door.)
Yeah. I know. and I ignored you.
(Grace. the door.)
Yeah. Okay.
Why? I thought
this was a safe neighborhood.
(I made door. You slammed door.)
Okay. It's just.
Armando likes the fresh air.
Can we talk about the water
temperature a little bit?
(Yes.)
It's amazing.
Just that you've done it at all.
Very cold.
And. before. it was boiling.
Is there an in between?
(I tell Adriana to get straight.)
Please tell
the bio dome illumination team
that it's perfect now.
(You want more sun?)
Oh. no. this is...
You know I'm a sucker for the fog.
(Grace.)
Yeah. pal.
(Eridian scientists are ready...)
(...equip Hail Mary. For trip home.)
Can I think about it?
(Yes. you can think long time.)
Good morning. class.
Okay. Everyone take their seats.
Let's wake up.
Who can tell me the speed of light?